---
source: USCIS Form Instructions
title: Form I-485 Supplement J Instructions (Job Portability)
url: https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/document/forms/i-485supjinstr.pdf
---

Instructions for Supplement J, Confirmation of Valid  
Job Offer or Request for Job Portability  
Under INA Section 204(j) 
Department of Homeland Security
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration ServicesUSCIS
Form I-485
OMB No. 1615-0023
Expires 10/31/2027I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 1 of 7 
    
 
 
 You must read these Instructions if you are filing Form I-485, Supplement J, Confirmation of Valid Job Offer or Request 
for Job Portability Under INA Section 204(j) (Supplement J), to either confirm that the job offered to you in Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, that is the basis of your Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, remains available to you or to request job portability under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) section 204(j). 
What Is the Purpose of Supplement J? 
You must use Supplement J if you are an employment-based applicant for adjustment of status who is filing or has previously filed Form I-485 as the principal beneficiary of a valid Form I-140 in an employment-based immigrant visa category that requires a job offer, and you now seek, in connection with your Form I-485, to: 
•	 Confirm that the job offered to you in Form I-140 remains a valid job offer that you intend to accept once your 
Form I-485 is approved; or 
•	 Request job portability under INA section 204(j) to a new, full-time, permanent job offer that you intend to accept once your Form I-485 is approved. Portability means to change the offer of employment from one job or employer to another job or employer. The new job offer must be in the same or a similar occupational classification as the job offered to you in Form I-140 that is the basis of your Form I-485. 
NOTE: In adjudicating Supplement J, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) does not make a determination 
whether you have current work authorization with the prospective employer . The basis for adjustment of status to 
lawful permanent resident under a valid Form I-140 is not actual (current) employment. Rather , the basis is prospective 
employment. Therefore, the adjudication of Supplement J, for applicants requesting job portability under INA section 
204(j), is primarily limited to a determination of whether you have a valid job offer from a U.S. employer that is in the same or a similar occupational classification as the position for which the underlying Form I-140 was filed and approved. 
NOTE: Individuals seeking or granted a National Interest Waiver of the job offer requirement and individuals seeking or 
granted classification as an alien of extraordinary ability under INA  section 203(b)(1)(A) do not need to file Supplement J. 
Because these employment-based immigrant visa categories are not tied to a specific job offer , individuals seeking or 
granted classification as an alien of extraordinary ability or seeking or granted a National Interest Waiver of the job offer 
requirement do not have to file Supplement J when filing Form I-485 or to request job portability under INA section 204(j). 
Who May File Supplement J? 
Unless you are filing Form I-485 at the same time with a Form I-140 or while a Form I-140 is still pending that names you as the principal beneficiary, you must file Supplement J at the time you file your Form I-485 to confirm that the job offered 
to you in the underlying Form I-140 is still valid and available to you. Additionally, you must file Supplement J to request 
job portability if you are eligible. USCIS may request that you file Supplement J again prior to final processing of your 
Form I-485. 
To request job portability to a new, permanent job offer under INA section 204(j), you must have a properly filed Form 
I-485 that: 
1. Has been pending with USCIS for 180 days or more since the receipt date; and 
2. Is based on an approved or pending Form I-140 that names you as the principal beneficiary . 
I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 2 of 7 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If the underlying Form I-140 is currently pending with USCIS and your Form I-485 has been pending with USCIS for 180 
days or more, you may still file Supplement J to request portability to a new , permanent job offer. However, please know 
that USCIS must first adjudicate and approve the Form I-140 prior to approving your portability request, if otherwise eligible. 
When Should You File Supplement J? 
If you are filing Supplement J to confirm that the job offer in the underlying Form I-140 is valid and still available to you, you must submit Supplement J when: 
•	 You initially file your employment-based Form I-485 with USCIS unless you are filing Form I-485 at the same 
time as Form I-140 or while the Form I-140 is still pending, or if your Form I-485 was filed prior to January 17, 
2017; or 
•	 You have received a Request for Evidence (RFE) or a Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) from USCIS requesting confirmation that the job offer in the underlying Form I-140 is valid and still available to you or , if applicable, that 
the job offer you have previously ported to under INA section 204(j) is valid and still available to you. 
NOTE: If Form I-140 is approved, USCIS may consider the approved Form I-140 and supporting documents, along with your filed Form I-485, as prima facie evidence that the job offer is valid and that you, the applicant, intend to accept the 
job offer if your Form I-485 is approved. However, depending on factors, such as the length of time it takes to adjudicate 
the underlying Form I-140 and your filed Form I-485, USCIS may request that you submit Supplement J to confirm that 
the job offer in the underlying Form I-140 is valid and still available to you prior to final processing of your Form I-485, 
or that you have ported to a new, permanent job offer under INA section 204(j). 
If you are filing Supplement J to request job portability to a new, permanent job offer under INA section 204(j), 
you may file Supplement J only after your Form I-485 was properly filed and has remained pending for 180 days or more since the receipt date, and: 
•	 You have received a new, permanent job offer from a U.S. employer that is in the same or similar occupational 
classification as the job offered to you in the underlying Form I-140, and now you would like to request that the new job offer be used in connection with your eligibility to adjust status to that of lawful permanent resident; 
•	 You have received an RFE or a NOID from USCIS in connection with your pending Form I-485 asking for confirmation that the job offered to you in the underlying Form I-140 or a previously filed Supplement J is still available to you; or 
•	 You have received a NOID from USCIS regarding your Form I-485 because the petitioner has withdrawn the Form I-140 filed on your behalf, or the petitioner has gone out of business. 
If you are requesting job portability under INA section 204(j), USCIS will reject Supplement J if you fle it before your Form I-485 has been pending for 180 days or more since the receipt date. Y ou can check your case status online at www.uscis.gov. 
What Evidence Must You Submit With Supplement J? 
1. If you are filing Supplement J to confirm that the job offer represented in the underlying Form I-140 is valid, then you, the applicant, only need to complete Parts 1., 2., 3., 4., and 5. of Supplement J and have the Form I-140 petitioner 
complete Parts 6., 7., 8., and 9. 
2. If you are filing Supplement J to request job portability under INA  section 204(j), you, the applicant, must complete 
Parts 1., 2., 3., 4., and 5. and the employer offering a new permanent job must complete Parts 6., 7., 8., and 9. In 
addition, you must submit the following documents with Supplement J: 
I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 3 of 7 
   
 
 
 
 A. A copy of Form I-797, Notice of Action, establishing the receipt date and acceptance of your Form I-485 under 
INA section 245, which shows that your Form I-485 has been pending for 180 days or more. If you do not have such documentation, USCIS will review the electronic record for the Form I-485 receipt number provided in Part 2. of Supplement J and/or any other USCIS records for evidence that you have filed a Form I-485 that has remained pending for 180 days or more; and 
B. If available, a copy of Form I-797 showing that you are the principal beneficiary of an approved or still pending Form I-140. If you do not have such documentation, USCIS will review the electronic record for the Form I-140 receipt number provided in Part 2. of Supplement J and/or any other USCIS records for evidence that you are the 
principal beneficiary of an approved or still pending Form I-140. 
NOTE: If you do not have the evidence listed in Items A. or B. above, you may provide information on Supplement J or 
other secondary evidence to demonstrate that you have filed Form I-485 which has been pending for 180 days or more since the receipt date, and that you are the principal beneficiary of an approved or still pending Form I-140. Failure to provide the evidence listed above or secondary evidence may result in delayed processing or denial of your request for job portability. 
NOTE: USCIS will review Supplement J in assessing whether the new job offer is in the same or a similar occupational 
classification as the job in the underlying Form I-140. The applicant and/or employer may submit any other evidence that is relevant in showing the new job is in the same or a similar occupational classification as the job specified in Form I-140. 
How Does USCIS Determine What Qualifies as a Same or Similar Occupational Classification? 
To determine whether the new job qualifies as the same or similar occupational classification as the job in the approved permanent labor certification (if applicable) and Form I-140, USCIS will review the totality of the record, including Supplement J and any additional evidence submitted by the applicant and/or employer . 
In determining whether the new job is in the same or a similar occupational classification as the job specified in Form I-140, 
USCIS will consider factors, including, but not limited to: 
•	 The similarity of the job duties and responsibilities; and/or 
•	 The similarity of the educational, experience, and/or training requirements. 
USCIS may refer to resources published by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) and its Bureau of Labor Statistics, or other relevant resources, to assist in determining whether the new offer of employment is in the same or similar occupational classification. These resources include: 
•	 DOL Occupational Outlook Handbook at www.bls.gov/ooh; 
•	 DOL O*NET system at www.onetonline.org; and 
•	 Standard Occupational Classification system used by DOL’s Occupational Employment Statistics program at www.bls.gov/soc. 
These resources contain detailed information on job titles, duties, rates of pay , and educational, experience, and/or 
training requirements. In many cases, the resources do provide information on similar or related occupations. Applicants 
may also use any of these resources or other relevant evidence to demonstrate that the new job is in the same or similar 
occupational classification as the job specified in Form I-140. 
USCIS may request that you provide more information or evidence to support your Supplement J. 
I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 4 of 7 
   
  
 
 
  
 General Instructions 
We provide free forms through the USCIS website. To view, print, or complete out our forms, you should use the latest 
version of Adobe Reader, which you can download for free at http://get.adobe.com/reader/ . If you do not have internet 
access, you may call the USCIS Contact Center and ask that we mail a form to you. 
Signature. Each supplement must be properly signed by both the applicant and an individual employer or authorized 
signatory of the business entity employer and filed. For all signatures on this supplement, USCIS will not accept a stamped or typewritten name in place of a signature. If you are under 14 years of age, your parent or legal guardian may sign the supplement on your behalf. A legal guardian may also sign for a mentally incompetent person. If your supplement is not signed, or if the signature is not valid, we will reject your supplement. See 8 CFR 103.2(a)(7)(ii)(A). 
Validity of Signatures. USCIS will consider a photocopied, faxed, or scanned copy of an original handwritten signature as valid for filing purposes. The photocopy, fax, or scan must be of the original document containing the handwritten ink signature. 
Filing Fee.  See Form G-1055, available at www.uscis.gov/forms, for specific information about the fees applicable to this 
form. 
Evidence. When you file your supplement, you must submit all evidence and supporting documentation listed in the 
What Evidence Must You Submit With Supplement J section of these Instructions. 
Biometric Services Appointment. USCIS may require you to appear for an interview or provide biometrics (fingerprints, 
photograph, and/or signature) at any time to verify your identity , obtain additional information, and conduct background 
and security checks, including a check of criminal history records maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), before making a decision on your application or petition. If we determine that a biometric services appointment is necessary, we will send you an appointment notice with the date, time, and location of your appointment. If you are currently overseas, your notice will instruct you to contact a U.S. Embassy , U.S. Consulate, or USCIS office outside the 
United States to schedule  an appointment. 
At your biometrics appointment, you must sign an oath reaffirming that: 
1. You provided or authorized all information in the supplement; 
2. You reviewed and understood all of the information contained in, and submitted with, your supplement; and 
3. All of this information was complete, true, and correct at the time of filing. 
If you do not attend your biometric services appointment, we may deny your supplement. 
Copies. You should submit legible photocopies of requested documents unless the Instructions specifically instruct you to 
submit an original document. USCIS may request an original document at any time during our process. If we request an 
original document from you, we will return it to you after USCIS determines it no longer needs the original. 
NOTE: If you submit original documents when they are not required or requested, USCIS may destroy them after we 
receive them. 
Translations. If you submit a document with information in a foreign language, you must also submit a full English 
translation. The translator must sign a certification that the English language translation is complete and accurate, and that he or she is competent to translate from the foreign language into English. The certification must also include the 
translator’s signature, printed name, the signature date, and the translator’s contact information. 
USCIS Contact Center. For additional information on the supplement and Instructions about where to file, change 
of address, and other questions, visit the USCIS Contact Center at www.uscis.gov/contactcenter or call 800-375-5283 
(TTY 800-767-1833). The USCIS Contact Center provides information in English and Spanish. 
Disability Accommodations/Modifications. To request a disability accommodation/modification, follow the instructions on your appointment notice or at www.uscis.gov/accommodationsinfo. 
I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 5 of 7 
    
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 How To Complete Supplement J 
1. If you need extra space to complete any item within this supplement, use the space provided in Part 10. Additional 
Information or attach a separate sheet of paper. 
2. Answer all questions fully and accurately. If a question does not apply to you (for example, if you have never been 
married and the question asks, “Provide the name of your current spouse”), type or print “N/A” unless otherwise directed. If your answer to a question which requires a numeric response is zero or none (for example, “How many children do you have” or “How many times have you departed the United States”), type or print “None” unless otherwise directed. 
3. USCIS Online Account Number. You will only have a USCIS Online Account Number (OAN ) if you previously 
filed a form that has a receipt number that begins with IOE. If you filed the form online, you can find your OAN in your account profile. If you mailed us the form, you can find your OAN at the top of the Account Access Notice we 
sent you. If you do not have a receipt number that begins with IOE, you do not have an OAN. The OAN is not the 
same as an A-Number. 
4. Part 3. Applicant’s Contact Information, Certification, and Signature. You must sign and date your supplement 
and, if applicable, provide your daytime telephone number, mobile telephone number, and email address. The signature of a parent or legal guardian, if applicable, is acceptable. A stamped or typewritten name in place of a 
signature is not acceptable. 
5. Part 4. and Part 9. Interpreter’s Contact Information, Certification, and Signature. If you used anyone as an interpreter to read the Instructions and questions on this supplement to you in a language in which you are fluent, the interpreter must fill out this section and sign and date the supplement. 
6. Part 5. Contact Information, Certifcation, and Signature of the Person Preparing Parts 1. - 4. of this 
Supplement, if Other Than the Applicant. The person who completed your supplement, if other than the applicant, must sign this section. If the same individual acted as your interpreter and your preparer , then that person should 
complete both Part 4. and Part 5. A stamped or typewritten name in place of a signature is not acceptable. 
7. Part 6. Information About the Employer. Business entity employers must complete Item Numbers 1. - 12. 
Individual employers must complete Item Numbers 1. - 2. and 13. - 17. 
8. Instructions for Industry and Occupation Codes 
A. NAICS Code. The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) is a standard in classifying business 
establishments for use by Federal statistical agencies. In the United States, the U.S. Department of Commerce 
(USDOC), U.S. Census Bureau assigns each establishment one NAICS code based on its primary activity . You 
can obtain the NAICS code from the USDOC, U.S. Census Bureau at www.census.gov/epcd/www/naics.html. 
Type or print the code from left to right, entering one digit in each of the six boxes. If you use a code that is less than six digits, type or print the code left to right and then add zeros in the remaining unoccupied boxes. For example 
• Type or print the code sequence 33466 as 334660; or 
• Type or print the code sequence 5133 as 513300. 
B. SOC Code. The Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) System is used by U.S. Federal agencies to classify 
workers into occupational categories for data purposes. All occupations are classified into a SOC System code by 
DOL, Bureau of Labor Statistics. You can obtain the SOC System codes from DOL, Bureau of Labor Statistics at www.bls.gov/soc. Type or print the code from left to right, entering one digit in each of the six boxes. 
I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 6 of 7 
   
 
 
         9. Part 8. Contact Information, Certifcation, and Signature of the Individual Employer or Authorized Signatory 
of the Business Entity Employer. You must sign and date your supplement and, if applicable, provide your daytime 
telephone number, mobile telephone number, and email address. A stamped or typewritten name in place of a signature is not acceptable. 
We recommend that you print or save a copy of your completed supplement for your records. 
Where To File? 
Please see our website at www.uscis.gov/i-485supj for the most current information about where to file this supplement. 
Address Change 
You must notify USCIS any time you change your mailing address or physical address. You must notify us no later than 10 days after making such a change. For information on changing your address, go to our website at www.uscis.gov/addresschange, or call the USCIS Contact Center. 
NOTE: Do not submit a change of address request to the USCIS Lockbox. 
Processing Information 
You must have a United States address to file this supplement. 
Requests for More Information. Once USCIS accepts your supplement, we will check it for completeness. If you do not 
properly complete this supplement, you will not establish a basis for your eligibility and we may request that you provide more information or evidence to support your supplement. We may also request that you provide the originals of any copies you submit. If we request an original document from you, we will return it to you after USCIS determines it is no longer needed. 
Decision. The decision on Supplement J involves a determination of whether you have established eligibility for the 
immigration benefit you are seeking. USCIS will notify you of our decision in writing. 
USCIS Forms and Information 
To ensure you are using the latest version of this supplement, visit www.uscis.gov. 
For questions about filing your supplement, you can use our many online tools ( uscis.gov/tools) including our virtual 
assistant, Emma. This website is available in Arabic, Haitian Creole, Spanish, French, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, 
Tagalog, Vietnamese, and Chinese. 
Penalties 
If you knowingly and willfully falsify or conceal a material fact or submit a false document with your Supplement J, we will deny your Supplement J and may deny any other immigration benefit. In addition, you will face severe penalties provided by law and may be subject to criminal prosecution. 
I-485 Supplement J Instructions  01/20/25 Page 7 of 7 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DHS Privacy Notice 
AUTHORITIES: USCIS is collecting the information requested on this supplement, and the associated evidence, under 
INA section 204(j).. 
PURPOSE: The primary purpose for providing the requested information on this supplement is to either confirm that the 
job offered to you in Form I-140, Immigrant Petition for Alien Worker, that is the basis of your Form I-485, Application to 
Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status, remains available to you or to request job portability under the INA section 204(j). DHS will use the information you provide to grant or deny the immigration benefit you are seeking. 
DISCLOSURE: The information you provide is voluntary. However, failure to provide the requested information, 
including your Social Security number (if applicable), and any requested evidence, may delay a final decision or result in 
USCIS denying your supplement. 
ROUTINE USES: DHS may, where allowable under relevant confidentiality provisions, share the information you 
provide on this supplement, and any additional requested evidence, with other Federal, state, local, and foreign government agencies and authorized organizations. DHS follows approved routine uses, as described in the associated published system of records notices [DHS/USCIS/ICE/CBP-001 Alien File, Index, and National File Tracking System, DHS/USCIS-007 Benefits Information System, and DHS/USCIS-018 Immigration Biometric and Background Check] and the published privacy impact assessments [DHS/USCIS/PIA-016(a) Computer Linked Application Information Management System] which you can find at www.dhs.gov/privacy. DHS may also share the information, as appropriate, for law enforcement purposes or in the interest of national security. 
Paperwork Reduction Act 
USCIS may not conduct or sponsor an information collection, and you are not required to respond to a collection of infor -
mation, unless it displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number . The public report -
ing burden for this collection of information is estimated at 36 minutes per response, in addition to the burden for com -
pleting Form I-485, including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering the required documentation and information, 
completing the supplement, preparing statements, attaching necessary documentation, and submitting the supplement. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to: U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Office of Policy and Strategy , Regulatory Coor -
dination Division, 5900 Capital Gateway Drive, Mail Stop #2140, Camp Springs, MD 20588-0009; OMB No. 1615-0023. Do not mail your completed Supplement J to this address. 
